feat(ktabledata): create component [KHCP-13110] (#2405)
Kong/kongponents: docs/components/table-data.md

# Table Data

> Component that takes care of fetching and rendering data in a table format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A table component that wraps [KTableView](/components/table-view) with built-in data fetching functionality.
```

:::tip NOTE
If you are looking for a simpler table component that does not integrate data fetching, check out [KTableView](/components/table-view).
:::

<KTableData
  :fetcher="basicFetcher"
  :headers="basicHeaders()"
/>

```html
<KTableData
  :fetcher="fetcher"
  :headers="headers"
/>
```

> ## Underlying KTableView Component
> 
> KTableData uses KTableView component providing data fetching layer on top. KTableData supports all KTableView [props](/components/table-view#props) (with the exception of `data` prop, which is replaced with [`fetcher` prop](#fetcher) in KTableData), [slots](/components/table-view#slots) and [events](/components/table-view#events) (with the exception of [pagination events](/components/table-view#pagination-events) which are not emitted by KTableData). `headers` and `hidePaginationWhenOptional` props as well as `update:table-preferences` event are handled slightly differently in KTableData. See below sections for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Base KTableView Component

KTableData wraps the KTableView component, adding data fetching functionality. 

KTableData supports all [KTableView props](/components/table-view#props) (with the exception of `data` prop, which is replaced with [`fetcher` prop](#fetcher) in KTableData), [slots](/components/table-view#slots) and [events](/components/table-view#events) (with the exception of [pagination events](/components/table-view#pagination-events) which are not emitted by KTableData). `headers` and `hidePaginationWhenOptional` props as well as `update:table-preferences` event are handled slightly differently in KTableData. See below sections for details.
```

Suggesting an update to this paragraph, but you need to break up the sentences still a bit more. That's a long sentence 😅

## Props

### headers

> In addition to all header object properties supported in KTableView, KTableData also allows specifying whether a column should be sortable via a function provided via [`sortHandlerFunction` prop](#sorthandlerfunction).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to all header object properties supported by KTableView, KTableData also allows specifying whether a column should be sortable  by providing a [`sortHandlerFunction` prop](#sorthandlerfunction).
```

```ts
interface TableDataHeader {
  /** must be unique for each column, see Reserved Header Keys section for more information about 'actions' key value */
  key: string
  /** visible column header text */
  label: string
  /** this property defines whether sort icon should be displayed next to the column header and whether the column header will emit sort event upon clicking on it */
  sortable?: boolean
  /** allow toggling column visibility */
  hidable?: boolean
  /** when provided, an info icon will be rendered next to the column label, upon hovering on which the tooltip will be revealed */
  tooltip?: string
  /** whether column header text should be hidden (only visible to screen readers) */
  hideLabel?: boolean
  /** Whether KTableData should use function passed through sortHandlerFunction prop to apply sorting logic to this column */
  useSortHandlerFunction?: boolean
}
```

For an example of `headers` prop usage please refer to [`fetcher` prop documentation](#fetcher) below.

### fetcher

> Function that handles data fetching, server-side search and pagination. It takes a single param as an argument which you can conveniently pass as a prop (see [`initialFetcherParams` prop](#initialfetcherparams) for details).

Reviewer: suggestion: "server-side search" implies this component does something in SSR or communicates with the server. I think this should be reworded to something that suggests that it supports querying new data from an API.

> Fetcher function is expected to return an object with the following properties:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The fetcher function is expected to return an object with the following properties:
```

  },
  {
    key: 'email',
    label: 'Email',
    hidable: true
  },
]

const fetcher = async (): Promise<any> => {
  // Fake delay
  await new Promise((resolve) => setTimeout(resolve, 2000))

  const responseData = [
    {
      id: 1,
      // notice that property keys in data object correspond to each respective key in headers const
      name: 'Leanne Graham', 
      username: 'Bret',
      email: 'Sincere@april.biz'
    },
    {
      id: 2,
      name: 'Ervin Howell',
      username: 'Antonette',
      email: 'Shanna@melissa.tv'
    },
    ...
  ]

  return {
    data: responseData,
    total: responseData.length,
  }
}

const sortHandlerFunction = ({ key, sortColumnOrder, data }) => {
  return data.sort((a, b) => {
    if (key === 'username') {
      if (sortColumnOrder === 'asc') {
        if (a.username > b.username) {
          return 1
        } else if (a.username < b.username) {
          return -1
        }

        return 0
      } else {
        if (a.username > b.username) {
          return -1
        } else if (a.username < b.username) {
          return 1
        }

        return 0
      }
    }

    return data
  })
}
</script>
```

:::tip NOTE

> Notice that in the example above the _Username_ column is `sortable`. In this example sorting is handled on the client side, however should you want to apply server-side logic to handle sorting, you can bind your logic to the [`sort` event](#sort) and perform re-fetching of data as needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notice in the example above the _Username_ column is `sortable`. In this example sorting is handled client-side; however, should you want to apply server-side logic to handle sorting, you can bind your logic to the [`sort` event](#sort) and perform re-fetching of data as needed.
```

Again, "server-side" logic here doesn't make sense; needs to be reworded.

:::

### initialFetcherParams

> Fetcher function takes a single param - an object with the following properties:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The fetcher function accepts a single parameter, an object with the following properties:
```
suggestion: Try not to abbreviate in docs, e.g. `param` -> `parameter`

```ts
interface FetcherParams {
  pageSize?: number // the number of items to display per page

>   page?: number // the currently visible page

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  page?: number // the currently active page
```

  query?: string // a text string to filter table data on (defined in the searchInput prop)
  sortColumnKey?: string // sortable column key (defined in the headers prop)
  sortColumnOrder?: 'asc' | 'desc' // sorting order

>   offset?: string | null // the value of the offset for offset-based pagination. offset MUST be included in the fetcher params for offset-based pagination to work properly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  offset?: string | null // the value of the offset for offset-based pagination. Offset must be included in the fetcher params for offset-based pagination to work properly
```

}
```

For ease of configuration, all properties in the `initialFetcherParams` object have default fallback values:

```ts
{ 
  pageSize: 15,
  page: 1,
  query: '',
  sortColumnKey: '',
  sortColumnOrder: '',
  offset: null
}
```

### clientSort

> Boolean to enable client side sorting if using a fetcher that returns unpaginated data. Defaults to `false`. Use this in conjunction with [`sortHandlerFunction` prop](#sorthandlerfunction).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Boolean to enable client-side sorting if using a fetcher that returns unpaginated data. Defaults to `false`. Use this in conjunction with [`sortHandlerFunction` prop](#sorthandlerfunction).
```

### sortHandlerFunction

Pass a custom sort handler function to handle sorting table data for specific columns.

:::warning WARNING

> If [`clientSort` prop](#clientsort) is `true` but no `sortHandlerFunction` provided, KTableData will apply some default logic for client side sorting. This may produce unexpected results. We recommend **always** providing a `sortHandlerFunction` when using client side sorting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If [`clientSort` prop](#clientsort) is `true` but no `sortHandlerFunction` provided, KTableData will apply some default logic for client side sorting. This may produce unexpected results. We recommend **always** providing a `sortHandlerFunction` when using client-side sorting.
```

:::

The function can take an object with these properties as the only argument and should return sorted array of table record objects:

```ts
interface SortHandlerFunctionParam {
  /** The key of the column to be sorted */
  key: string
  /** The key of the column previously sorted */
  prevKey: string
  /** The order in which to sort the column (asc or desc) */
  sortColumnOrder: 'asc' | 'desc'
  /** The data returned from the fetcher function response */
  data: Array<any>
}
```

:::tip NOTE
Please note that you have to set [`clientSort` prop](#clientsort) to `true` as well as to pass `sortable: true` and `useSortHandlerFunction: true` in the respective [headers object](#headers) to make a column sortable via `sortHandlerFunction`.
:::

> Please refer to [`fetcher` prop documentation](#fetcher) for example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please refer to the [`fetcher` prop documentation](#fetcher) for an example.
```

Since the `fetcher` function will handle the initial fetch of the data, we want the cache key for the `revalidate` function to be a falsey value on page load (to avoid an unnecessary duplicate call), and will manually call `revalidate()` and increment the `key` to trigger a refetch and redraw of the table.

```html
<template>
  <KTableData :key="key" :fetcher="fetcher" :headers="headers" />
</template>

<script setup lang="ts">
const key = ref<string>(0) // initialized to zero

const fetcher = async ({ pageSize, page, query, offset = null }) => {
  try {
    const res = await services.getAll(pageSize, offset)

    // handle data
  } catch (error) {
    // handle error
  }
}

const { revalidate } = composables.useRequest(
  () => key.value && `service-list-${key.value}`, // will evaluate to falsey on mount, preventing an extra call
  () => { return fetcher() }
)

const handleDelete = (id): void => {
  try {
    const res = await services.delete(id)

    key.value++
    revalidate()
  } catch (error) {
    // handle error
  }
}
</script>
```

### searchInput

> Pass in a string of search query for server-side table filtering.

Reviewer: Shouldn't reference "server-side filtering" - needs to be reworded to explain that the searchInput is returned as a param to the fetcher that can then be used to modify the API request

### sortable

Set this to `false` to disable ability to sort.

### hidePaginationWhenOptional

Set this to `true` to hide pagination when the table record count is less than or equal to the page size. Defaults to `false`.

### hideToolbar

Prop for hiding toolbar. Useful when elements provided in the toolbar are not actionable (for example, when toolbar contains filter controls, however the fetcher returns no results as there are no records to filter by).

## Events

> ### state

Reviewer: This event is named the same as it was in KTable, but an event name of "state" is very broad and doesn't actually return the "state" of a large portion of the table's configuration/data
